The Ingredients:

Eggplant – You will need large purple eggplant (brinjal, aubergine) to make mutabal.
Tahini Paste – Tahini is a traditional Middle Eastern ingredient that gives mutabal a creamy nutty taste.
You can either make it at home using my easy Tahini Recipe or buy a bottle.
Yogurt – It is added to make the dip creamy and light.
Others – You will also need onions, freshly squeezed lemon juice, garlic cloves, salt, and extra virgin olive oil.

The Steps:
Step 1

Roast The Eggplant In An Oven
Wash a large eggplant with water and pat it dry using paper towels or a kitchen cloth.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C).
Make incisions all over the eggplant using a sharp knife to prevent it from bursting during roasting.
Place the eggplant on a baking sheet and roast it in the preheated oven for about 40-45 minutes,
or until the skin is charred and the flesh is soft.
Remove the eggplant from the oven and let it cool slightly.

Step 2

Over Direct Flame
Wash a large eggplant with water and pat it dry using paper towels or a kitchen cloth.
Make incisions all over the eggplant using a sharp knife to prevent it from bursting during roasting.
Hold the eggplant (with the stalk) over the open flame,
positioning it about 2-3 inches above the burner. You can keep it over a metal rack as I did.
Rotate the eggplant occasionally to ensure even charring.
As the eggplant roasts, the skin will start to char and blister.
Continue rotating it until the entire skin is blackened and the flesh inside feels soft and collapses when gently squeezed.
This usually takes about 10-15 minutes, depending on the size of the eggplant.
Once roasted, carefully transfer the eggplant to a cutting board,
or a plate and let it cool for a few minutes until it’s comfortable to handle.

Step 3

Make The Mutabal
Once the eggplant is cool enough to handle,
peel off the charred skin and discard it. You should be left with the soft flesh.
Chop the flesh into small pieces and discard the stalk.
Add the eggplant flesh along with
¼ cup of chopped onions
2 tbsp tahini paste
1 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 tsp chopped garlic
2 tbsp Greek yogurt
½ teaspoon salt
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
to a blender or a food processor and just blend to make a smooth dip.
Check for salt and lemon juice and add more if needed.
Transfer the Mutabal to a serving dish.
Drizzle with a little extra olive oil and sprinkle with fresh parsley and pomegranate seeds, if desired, for garnish.

Serve with warm pita bread or as part of a mezze platter. Enjoy!
































